Rasmus Knoth Nielsen  
Mandatory II - NodeJS  
Computer Science, 2020  
KEA.  

## What is this?
In this mandatory assignment, we did a website that implements authentication and validation of users.  

On this site, there are several pages, where two of them are only accessible with proper authentication with a user login.  

When a user signs up, they can choose to provide an email or not.  
If the user provided an email and later forgets their password, they can initiate password reset.  
This process sends an mail to their email, that has an unique token in it. When they enter this token into the /passwordreset page,  
they can change their current password into a new one.

Functionality:
- Several routes, where two of them are restricted to logged in users.
- Server Side Rendering of webpages
- User creation and login
- Email sent to newly created users that provided an email
- Password Recovery via usr provided email
- Getting info from MySQL database and show it on a page (/profile)

## How to start the service

1)
Install dependencies
> $ npm install

2)
Alter the mysqlCredentials.template.js 
-> mysqlCredentials.js
Write the db name,  user and password in the file

3)
Alter the mailCredentials.template.js
-> mailCredentials.js
Write the email and password for it, to enabling sending mails from your own email.
Remember to comment out line 148-154 in the auth.js file in /routes, if you do not want to use your own e-mail,
and remove the comments around line 132-145 if you want to use a test email, that is autogenerated.

4) 
Remember to start your MySQL server :)

5)
Create the tables of the database
> $ npm run migrate:latest
> $ npm run seed:run 001._users

6) 
Start the server using nodemon.js app

7) 
Access the site at localhost:8686
